In this video, we'll discuss an expensive
type of malware called ransomware.
Then we'll cover three key
impacts of threats, risks, and
vulnerabilities on
organizational operations.
Ransomware is a malicious attack
where threat actors encrypt
an organization's data then
demand payment to restore access.
Once ransomware is
deployed by an attacker,
it can freeze network systems,
leave devices unusable, and
encrypt, or lock confidential
data, making devices inaccessible.
The threat actor then demands a ransom
before providing a decryption key
to allow organizations to return to
their normal business operations.
Think of a decryption key as a password
provided to regain access to your data.
Note that when ransom negotiations occur
or data is leaked by threat actors,
these events can occur
through the dark web.
While many people use search engines to
navigate to their social media accounts or
to shop online, this is only a small
part of what the web really is.
The web is actually an interlinked
network of online content that's
made up of three layers: the surface web,
the deep web, and the dark web.
The surface web is the layer
that most people use.
It contains content that can be
accessed using a web browser.
The deep web generally requires
authorization to access it.
An organization's intranet is
an example of the deep web,
since it can only be accessed by employees
or others who have been granted access.
Lastly, the dark web can only be
accessed by using special software.
The dark web generally carries a negative
connotation since it is the preferred
web layer for criminals because
of the secrecy that it provides.
Now, let's discuss three key impacts
of threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.
The first impact we'll
discuss is financial impact.
When an organization's assets are
compromised by an attack, such as the use
of malware, the financial consequences can
be significant for a variety of reasons.
These can include interrupted
production and services,
the cost to correct the issue, and
fines if assets are compromised
because of non-compliance with laws and
regulations.
The second impact is identity theft.
Organizations must decide whether
to store private customer,
employee, and outside vendor data, and
for how long.
Storing any type of sensitive data
presents a risk to the organization.
Sensitive data can include personally
identifiable information, or
PII, which can be sold or
leaked through the dark web.
That's because the dark web provides
a sense of secrecy and threat actors may
have the ability to sell data there
without facing legal consequences.
The last impact we'll discuss is damage
to an organization's reputation.
A solid customer base supports
an organization's mission,
vision, and financial goals.
An exploited vulnerability can lead
customers to seek new business
relationships with competitors or
create bad press that causes permanent
damage to an organization's reputation.
The loss of customer data doesn't only
affect an organization's reputation and
financials, it may also result
in legal penalties and fines.
Organizations are strongly encouraged
to take proper security measures and
follow certain protocols to prevent
the significant impact of threats,
risks, and vulnerabilities.
By using all the tools in their toolkit,
security teams are better
prepared to handle an event
such as a ransomware attack.
Coming up, we'll cover the NIST
risk management framework's
seven steps for managing risk.